the first three numbers stand for the
tire width
two numbers that follow after a slash
show how wide the tire is
the more the number is the more the tire
looks like a truck tire
the number is in the range from 35 to 90
and the average is around 60.
letters that follow reveal the tire
construction so
if you see the letter r it stands for
passenger type
and you're likely to see it on your own
car too if you see
zr instead it means the tire is suitable
for racing
and the last two digits describe the
size of the rim in inches
aren't you tired of this
oh by the way the letter z was removed
from the latin alphabet in 300 bce
and returned two centuries later took
you long enough
another cool car fact a full tank of
gasoline
equals about 31 000 calories the amount
one person needs for about 20 days
don't drink the stuff formula 1 raising
cars are constructed in such a way that
at a certain speed they could be driving
on a ceiling
in just 12 days of eating sugar our
brain structure changes
and we have a hard time doing without
sweet stuff afterwards
colors are the way the object reflects
or absorbs light
the darker the color the more light it
absorbs the darkest color out there
isn't black
it's vanta it absorbs more than 99
percent of light
and it's the darkest pigment on our
planet
some butterfly's wings are 100 times
blacker than charcoal
but it's not about the color this effect
is just an
optical illusion created thanks to the
wing structure
[Music]
photographs actually capture light the
tiniest thing ever photographed
was the shadow of an atom
at any given moment there are two points
on earth exactly
opposite to each other but having
exactly the same temperature and
atmospheric pressure
since birds have evolved from dinosaurs
and had a crocodilian
ancestor they just might have been
classified as reptiles
soap operas got their name from the
first advertiser sponsoring dramas on
radio and tv
they were mainly cleaning and detergent
product manufacturers
[Applause]
spandex a fiber used in making sports
clothing
got its name as an anagram of the word
expands
bubble gum is usually pink because the
first commercial gum
made in 1928 was like that pink simply
was the only color of the food dye
available at the factory
the first chewing gum ever though
probably appeared about
10 000 years ago people chewed birch
bark tar back then
yummy salad dressings and sunscreen have
something in common
ranch dressing is white because of
titanium dioxide
sunscreen producers add some titanium
dioxide to their
products too so if you get caught out in
the sun
and all you have is ranch dressing
you'll know what to do
bananas have a curved shape because they
turn towards the sun
maybe they need some ranch dressing rats
can smell if their pack members are
hungry and share their food with them
domestic cats influence wildlife in
their vicinity
much more than other wild animals
especially predators
when you buy some grated cheese get
ready for surprise
if the package says it contains
cellulose it means that cheese does
contain
wood pulp don't worry it's digestible
it's added to prevent it from clumping
when you gain or lose weight your fat
cells don't disappear
they just change their size when you
take a hot bath
you burn as many calories as you would
if you went for a 30 minute walk
there are actually way more possible
chess iterations
than there are atoms in the observable
universe
if you make ice cubes with tap water
they will be white
if you use boil water they will be
transparent
boiling the water removes all gases from
it so they don't form bubbles when
frozen
almost anything that melts can be used
to make glass
the only thing you need to do is cool
off the molten material
until the molecules realign into what
they used to be
before melting if it was possible to get
rid of
all of the empty space from the atoms
that every human on earth is made of
then all the people on the planet could
easily fit into an
orange many dogs love veggies
carrots cucumbers mine eats carrots but
please don't treat your little friend to
grapes
dogs are completely intolerant to it
your taste buds won't work properly if
your mouth is too dry
the saliva triggers chemical reactions
thanks to enzymes
also called catalyst proteins that will
break down the food
as soon as it gets into your mouth
honey's the only food product that never
goes bad
horses can have dashing mustaches to
mash their manes
and they look fabulous there are two
types of baby carrots
the first are the veggies picked before
they reach maturity
the second type are trimmed adult
carrots this is just a marketing trick
to convert carrots that have no market
value
into a product that can actually be sold
continents move constantly but pretty
slowly
the average speed rate is the same as
your fingernails growth
the south pole was a lush tropical
rainforest
about 90 million years ago
only one continent on our planet that
covers all four hemispheres
is africa number one isn't exactly one
it's zero point infinite nines
escalator brushes aren't for keeping
your shoes clean and polished
it might be tough to apply wax right on
that brush while the escalator is on the
move
it's actually for our safety brushes
won't let you come
close to the edge so a long coat or boot
cut jeans
won't end up in between the steps
there's enough gold in the earth's core
to cover the whole planet in a foot
thick layer
the smallest dinosaur in history was the
size of a bee hummingbird
you should drop the cranberries to see
if they're tasty these berries can
bounce because of teeny tiny air pockets
inside
the air lets them bounce and float the
higher the berries bounce
the better they are when you're asleep
you won't smell anything with a nasty
odor the thing is that your sense of
smell deactivates at night
if there's some really terrible smell in
your bedroom you won't even be bothered
your morning coffee is actually stewed
fruit
coffee beans are a berry pick so it's
basically a drink made of berries
if an onion was grown in a soil pour in
sulfur
its taste is going to be soft and you
won't shed a tear while cooking
if the soil was vice versa rich in
sulfur
make sure there's a kleenex box for you
australia may be
a relatively small continent but it's
still wider than the moon
in the philippines there's an island
inside a lake
on an island that's inside another lake
which is located
right on an island smartphones require a
tiny amount of electricity
even if you calculated the yearly cost
of every charge
it would be definitely under one buck
donuts have a hole in the middle and it
doesn't stand for o
in donut it's not designed for an easier
grip either
though it can be quite convenient too
it's actually made this way for mass
baking so that they cook all the way
through evenly
bath foam isn't only for fun or a nice
smell
it also helps regulate the temperature
the bubbles keep the water hot
so you can enjoy your bath a bit longer
anyway it works for acrylic bathtubs
only
those made of metal lose heat really
fast either way
if you ever tried a nintendo cartridge
to taste
you'll confirm this they taste revolting
leading a sour bitterish aftertaste in
your mouth
they're covered with denatonium benzoate
one of the most disgusting flavors known
that's why nobody swallows them
koalas drink by licking water off tree
trunks they're hanging onto
your stomach has a lining that's
replaced every three to four days
that's done to stop it from eating
itself the digestive acids can be pretty
damaging
tomatoes have more genes than humans
this shouldn't concern you though
because it's not the number of genes
that matters but the complexity of their
connections
the second dirtiest place in our body is
the belly button
and it's probably because it's the first
ignored place
we really don't use it after we're born
the belly button has over 2
300 bacterial species and it does need
extra attention
there's a tiny thermometer inside each
cell of a living being
it detects if it's too warm for comfort
and changes how the cell grows
200 years ago ketchup was used as a
medicine
doctors used to believe tomatoes had a
lot of medicinal properties
so did ketchup well we still love it but
as a dressing
oh and the last one three of the hardest
things for people to say
one i was wrong two i need help
three worcestershire sauce i can say it
because i'm a professional